
Airbnb is a privately-owned accommodation rental website which allows house owners to rent out their properties to guests looking for a place to stay. Airbnb enables a marketplace where people can rent lodging in residential properties. The main idea is a house-sharing service that offers an opportunity for travellers to get cheaper accommodation wherever they travel to. As of 15 September 2019, hosts have earned more than $80bn sharing their homes and spaces on Airbnb. The offers range from shared rooms to full condos/houses and can offer unique and differentiated options as compared to normal traditional hotels. Airbnb has 31 offices across the world and have hosted 400 million guests since its launch. Opportunity for homeowners to make more money from their homes by sharing with travellers. Airbnb offers complete independence to its hosts to decide on the price for their properties, however with only minimal attributes to leverage upon and compare similar previous listings in their neighbourhood, the hosts find it difficult to come up with a competitive price. With the number of hosts using Airbnb increasing, coming up with the right price to remain competitive in a host’s neighbourhood is important. On the other side, guests can also find places to stay at a reasonable price and understand the seasonal demands. Airbnb has also seen a potential growth with the number of rentals/listings in its website subsequently increasing each year. Through our analysis, we want to address the following: 
• What time of the year are Airbnb’s most popular in San Francisco? Are specific holiday seasons more popular? 
• What are the most important characteristics of a listing, and how do they influence price? 
• Understand the rental landscape in San Francisco through various static and interactive visualisations.
• How fast is Airbnb growing in San Francisco? 
• The exploration results could refer useful knowledge for hosts who search for comparable price and make their listing stand out.
• Predict the Airbnb Listing Price in San Francisco • We wanted to do a project that addresses a common issue that could either benefit an organization or the general public. The challenge that Airbnb hosts face is determining the optimal nightly rent price.
• Since Airbnb is a marketplace, the amount a host can charge on a nightly basis is closely linked to the dynamics of the marketplace. 
• Moreover, we wanted to pick a dataset that gives us some scope to perform various analysis. Therefore, we chose the topic AirBnb Rental Listings for San Francisco, United States.
